Story Recapped here. Today,
I'm going to explain an action,
thriller, and sci-fi film called "The Island."
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
A group of people in an isolated colony have
to live in a tightly controlled environment,
knowing that much of the earth is now
uninhabitable due to widespread contamination.
They have to follow a rigorous daily
routine of proper diet and exercise
to keep themselves healthy. Each dreams of
going to an uncontaminated paradise island,
but they're told that only those who win the
weekly lottery are allowed to live there.
Lincoln Six Echo dreams about reaching
the island on a boat, but he also suffers
from nightmares that cause him to wake up
confused about his surroundings and identity.
When he gets out of his room, he is greeted
by other inhabitants who are all wearing the
same outfit. Upon entering the elevator, they're
informed that the lottery has picked a resident
named Starkweather Two Delta to go to the island.
Starkweather, who has been staying at the compound
for six months, shares his excitement of getting
to breathe fresh air and swim in the ocean.
A resident named Gandu Three Echo starts
hitting the screen in frustration. He tells
the other men at the lift that he has been there
for seven years and still hasn't won the lottery.
When Lincoln arrives at the cafeteria, the
server informs him that he cannot have bacon
because of a nutrition flag. Before he could sit
at a table, his best friend, Jordan Two Delta,
approaches him from behind and tells him to "watch
and learn." She uses her charms on the server to
get some bacon, despite not being allowed to have
them. Jordan goes back to Lincoln and drops the
bacon in his tray. As they continue chatting, a
guard interrupts them and tells them to separate.
After the meal, Lincoln reports to Dr. Merrick,
the head scientist at the facility. Merrick warns
Lincoln about being in constant proximity
to Jordan and asks him about his nightmares.
Lincoln tells Merrick about a boat that takes
him to the island and begins sketching it.
As the doctor asks him more questions, he
complains about the food choices and the clothes
available to him and says he wishes there's
more to his life than just going to the island.
The doctor advises Lincoln to
consider himself lucky to survive
the contamination and be a part of the
facility that will repopulate the earth.
When Lincoln asks him if he plans on going to
the island, Merrick says that he and other staff
members are ineligible to win the lottery
because they are needed at the compound.
Lincoln finishes the sketch of
the boat and shows it to Merrick.
Below the drawing, Lincoln has written the
word "renovatio." When the doctor asks him
what it means, Lincoln said that he saw it in
his dreams, but he doesn't know its meaning.
The doctor decides to run some tests on Lincoln.
During the examination, he drops several tiny
metallic orbs onto Lincoln's face and tells
him that those are microsensors that will
be attached to his optic nerves. The balls start
transforming and crawl up into Lincoln's eyelid.
Merrick informs him that the sensors
will be uploading data to the facility.
After 24 hours, he will be expelling the
tiny devices from his body when he urinates.
At the work center, Lincoln complains to his
co-workers about being bored from doing their job.
His co-worker, Jones Three Echo, suggests that
they are doing important work by feeding the
nutrient lines to keep the residents healthy.
Gandu Three Echo approaches them and alerts
them to a new arrival, leaving Jones to wonder how
they keep finding survivors outside the compound.
The atmosphere at the work center shifts abruptly
when a pregnant woman suddenly collapses. While
her co-workers call for help, the woman, named
Lima One Alpha, realizes that she is now in labor.
She smiles as she breathes heavily, knowing that
she and her baby are now headed to the island.
Lincoln takes advantage of the situation and
reports that his workstation has broken down.
He manages to get the key to Sector Six, where
he meets a technician named James McCord.
He tells McCord that his computer broke down
again, but the technician knows that he just
made it up to see him. They hang out at
McCord's workstation drinking an unknown
beverage from a flask until the technician
was called to report in "product extraction."
After McCord leaves, Lincoln catches a bug and
puts it in a matchbox labeled "Ace of Spades."
McCord heads to product extraction
while lab personnel is working on
a pod containing a human body. The
lab personnel cuts the pod open and
remove the tubes attached to the man that
emerged from the pod. As the man struggles,
a lab worker removes an obstruction
inside his mouth, allowing him to breathe.
A scientist comes in to check
on the condition of the man.
After the inspection, he tells the lab
personnel that the man appears to be a
"fine product." They put a tag on the man's wrist
and cover it with a bracelet. In another sector,
more pods containing human bodies receive fluids
from the nutrient lines being fed by Jones.
Later that night, Lincoln tells Jordan about the
bug that he found. He starts wondering about how
the insect survived the contamination and surmised
that something might be wrong with the facility.
After Jordan leaves, Gandu and Jones approach
him and tell him that the lottery is starting.
The residents watch in anticipation as
their photos are flashed on the screen.
A few moments later, a woman announces that
Jordan Two Delta has won. While Jordan celebrates,
Lincoln is dismayed by the thought of
being left behind by his best friend.
That night, Lincoln was abruptly
awakened by a nightmare.
Unable to fall back to sleep, he decides to
take the bug back to Sector Six and release it.
He follows the bug and reaches a
hatch that leads to a restricted area.
Lincoln climbs up quietly and sneaks into a room
to change his clothes. Now wearing a lab coat,
he walks around freely as he inspects the other
rooms. During his investigation, he comes across
a window with a view of the delivery room,
where Lima One Alpha just finished giving birth.
Moments after the delivery, a doctor injects a
serum into a tube attached to Lima. As the liquid
runs through the pipes, Lima's body begins to
shake violently. A nurse holds down her feet tight
until she flatlines. In the next room, Lincoln
watches in shock as they cover Lima with a bag.
The nurse brings the baby into another room,
where a couple is waiting. She then hands over
the infant to the woman that looks exactly like
Lima. In the operating room, other staff members
are preparing to remove Starkweather's liver.
However, he wakes up before the surgeon can
even make an incision. He runs out of the room
screaming for his life only to be caught by the
guards armed with harpoon guns. Lincoln witnesses
the incident while hiding behind a mobile tray.
Lincoln runs back down to Sector Six while
the guards watch the footage of Starkweather's
capture. Merrick enters the security station
and asks the staff to play the video again.
He notices a frame showing an unknown
figure taking cover behind a tray and
tells the guards to run a facial
match then find the resident.
Meanwhile, Lincoln runs to the women's quarters
to find Jordan as Merrick orders a total lockdown.
When Lincoln reaches her room,
he describes what he witnessed
in the medical sector and warns
her that her life is in danger.
Lincoln and Jordan start running from the
guards and eventually end up in Sector Six.
They exit the sector through a
vent and fall into a large room
where they see hundreds of people lying
on gurneys while watching a video feed.
On their way out, they come across a
giant hologram of mountains and the ocean.
Lincoln notices the machinery that powers the
hologram while Jordan opens a blast door that
leads outside. When they emerge from the
compound, they find themselves in a desert.
Back inside the facility, an announcer
tells the residents that Lincoln has been
put on quarantine while Jordan has
been sent on her way to the island.
Meanwhile, Merrick gives a
presentation to potential clients,
assuring them that the institute complies with
the nation's eugenics laws. He further stresses
that all the clones are in a vegetative
state and incapable of feeling any emotion.
After the presentation, Merrick meets with a
mercenary named Albert Laurent and asks him to
bring back Jordan and Lincoln. When Laurent points
out their supposed vegetative state, Merrick
explains that the organs always fail without
consciousness and human experience. Laurent
immediately orders his men to prepare to search
for the clones as they wait for their description.
In the desert, Jordan and Lincoln see a
snake and note that the animal is alive
and unaffected by the supposed contamination.
Later on, Merrick informs Laurent that
Jordan Two Delta's sponsor, Sarah Jordan,
has been injured in a car accident and needs
multiple organ transplants within 48 hours.
On the road, Lincoln comes
across a sign marked "Route 39."
He looks at the matchbox he took from
McCord's workstation and notices that
it is the same route marked as
the Ace of Spades bar location.
The two clones follow the trail and eventually
arrive at the bar, where they find McCord.
McCord reluctantly takes the two clones to his
home and tells them the truth about the facility.
Lincoln and Jordan learn that they were
clones who were raised to provide spare
organs when their wealthy sponsors
get sick. The memories they have
are just imprints to make them think that
they've had a life before they were cloned.
Their sponsors are not aware that the clones are
conscious because Merrick keeps them well hidden.
Lincoln insists on finding their sponsors,
so McCord gives them some clothes, cash,
and credit cards. Laurent learns that Lincoln
has been implanted with microsensors that emit
low-frequency RF signals, so he uses them to track
their location. Lincoln passes the microsensors
at the train station, but Laurent's team has
already followed them there. While buying a map,
McCord recognizes one of the mercenaries
and tries to warn the two clones.
The mercenary shoots McCord in the chest,
and Lincoln and Jordan make a run for it.
The clones arrive in Los Angeles to find Lincoln
Six Echo's sponsor, Tom Lincoln. While walking
on their way to find a directory, Jordan comes
across an advertisement featuring her sponsor.
She stares in amazement at the TV
as she sees Sarah kissing a man.
Meanwhile, Laurent's men also arrive in
the city and immediately start tapping
into the surveillance cameras to find the
two clones. The operatives discover their
exact location when Lincoln uses the
credit card at the information booth.
Lincoln and Jordan use the directory to search
for Tom Lincoln only to find out that he is not
listed. When they ask about Sarah Jordan, the
directory immediately makes a video call to
Sarah's house. A young boy answers the call and
informs Jordan that his mother is at the hospital.
As the boy turns to look at the monitor,
he recognizes Jordan's face and
wonders if he's talking to his mom.
Laurent and his team reach the location of the
clones as soon as they drop the video call,
but the police also arrive at the scene to
pick them up for the murder of James McCord.
Merrick tells Laurent to use any means
necessary to retrieve the clones,
fearing that the facility will also
be implicated in the investigation.
On their way to the police station, Lincoln
asks the cop to pull up Tom Lincoln's file
to find out where he lives. As the squad car
waits for the green light at the intersection,
Laurent's armored van crashes the vehicle's
front. A firefight ensues between Laurent's
operatives and the cops, giving Lincoln
and Jordan some time to break free. The
mercenaries leave the shootout and chase
after the clones, but they eventually getaway.
Back at the compound, Gandu Three Echo
tells Merrick that he has doubts whether
the contamination is real because of the bug
that Lincoln found. Fearing that he might share
his suspicions with others, Merrick eliminates
Gandu by injecting him with an unknown chemical.
The following day, the two clones arrive
at Tom Lincoln's house. As Lincoln Six Echo
curiously inspects a scanner, it lights up when it
detects his features and opens the door for them.
Lincoln walks around the house and
sees several pictures of his sponsor.
He becomes fascinated by the display of
a model boat marked "Renovatio." While
checking out the display, Tom attacks him from
behind with a golf club. Tom, who wears glasses,
swings the club again to hit the clone, but he
stops after seeing his face staring back at him.
At the Institute, Merrick learns that Lincoln
experienced 30 years of growth in his memories
in the past three years. The Chief of Incubation
surmises that the anomaly is an infection,
but Merrick asserts that these
are memories of his sponsor.
Back at the house, Tom helps the clones
remove the bracelets from their wrists.
Later on, he explains to Lincoln that he has
cirrhotic hepatitis and his liver will
start failing within the next two years.
Lincoln convinces Tom to go to the media and
tell the world about the clones at the facility.
Tom, however, secretly calls the institute and
notifies them that the clones are in his house.
As they prepare to leave, Jordan detects that
Tom is hiding something, so she stays behind.
On their way to the TV station, Laurent
catches up and blocks them when they arrive
at an intersection. Tom suddenly points
a gun at Lincoln, letting him know that
he has no intention of letting the world
know about what goes on at the institute.
Lincoln drives away from the mercenaries
until they get to an abandoned museum.
Lincoln gets out of the car and tries to run
away, but Tom tackles him. As they struggle
to subdue each other, Tom loses his glasses.
The mercenaries arrive just in time to see the
identical men emerge from the scuffle, with
one pointing a gun at the other. As Laurent
tries to assess the situation, both men start
claiming that they're the real Tom Lincoln.
As the two men argue about their identity,
Lincoln Six Echo suddenly wraps the clone
bracelet on Tom's wrist. Seeing the
bracelet, Laurent decides to shoot
Tom. Lincoln later tells Laurent that Jordan
has left the state to look for her sponsor.
Realizing that some clones could behave
unpredictably, Merrick orders his staff
to dispose of them. The institute calls Tom
Lincoln's house to inform him of the recall
and invite him back to the facility for a
rescan. Merrick launches mass winnings for
the lottery to remove the potentially
disruptive clones from the population.
Lincoln and Jordan start making plans
to leave on Tom's boat and head south,
but not before they free the
other clones at the facility.
Meanwhile, the staff at the institute have
already started disposing of the clones that
are still being incubated. As Lincoln
prepares to head back to the institute,
Jordan uses McCord's credit card to alert the
mercenaries to her location. Laurent and his men
arrive at a park to grab her and take her back
to the compound, where they'll take her organs.
Lincoln arrives at the facility and meets
up with the public relations officer,
Charles Whitman. Before they start the rescan,
Lincoln knocks Whitman with a gun and
goes on his way to free the other clones.
In the operating room, a guard taunts
Jordan as they prepare to remove her organs.
When the guard turns his back on her, she
takes out a gun that she hid in his pants and
shoots him in the leg. She leaves the operating
room with a security key and a walkie-talkie.
She meets up with Jordan at the entrance,
and they walk through the halls until they
reach the area where the clones are being
prepared for disposal. Lincoln goes on his
way to shut down the holographic power
grid while Jordan follows the clones.
Merrick reveals to Laurent that Sarah Jordan is
unlikely to survive even if the transplants are
successful. Laurent, somehow, starts feeling
an affinity with the clones as he recalls
how and his brothers were once branded to
indicate that they were less than humans.
As Lincoln makes his way to the hologram room, the
institute's security team issues an alert for him
after a doctor discovers that the corpse belonged
to Tom. Laurent manages to track down Jordan and
disarms her while staff members usher the lottery
winners to an incineration chamber. However,
as soon as the staff starts the incineration
process, Jordan and Laurent save the clones.
Meanwhile, Lincoln reaches the hologram room and
pulls down a lever to overload the reaction fan.
Merrick then arrives at the room armed with a
harpoon gun to deal with Lincoln personally.
Merrick struggles to subdue Lincoln
but eventually gains the upper hand.
He strangles Lincoln with his bare hands,
leaving his harpoon gun lying next to them.
Upon seeing the weapon, Lincoln reaches for
it and uses it to shoot Merrick in the neck.
As the grid begins to malfunction, the turbine
fan spins out of control and breaks the walkway
where the two men are fighting. The two
men are left hanging on a harpoon cable,
but only Lincoln makes it back up
alive. As the hologram starts to fade,
clones run outside of the compound to
breathe the fresh air for the first time.
Laurent looks on and smiles as Lincoln and
Jordan celebrate their freedom with a kiss.